for both Salmonella and L. monocytogenes. The 10 product categories listed in Table
4 were continued for CY 2005 so all results are organized around those 10 product
categories. The results from CY 2005 for Salmonella are presented in Table 15. The
results for L. monocytogenes are presented in Table 16.
The 2006 Results
FSIS initiated three changes during CY 2006. First, the RTERISK1 project was
discontinued, although there were still 328 results reported in 2006 from samples
that were scheduled at the end of 2005. Second, the ALLRTE project was modified so
that establishments were randomly picked each month from the population of
establishments that were not scheduled that month for a risk-based sample under
project RTE001. With this change more establishments were scheduled each month
and the possibility of ever getting two samples representing the same product was
further minimized. This change did, however, limit the ALLRTE results as a trend
indicator. The concept behind ALLRTE was to get a random sample across the full
range of RTE products and across all establishments producing an RTE product. Since
many establishments were scheduled every month for an RTE001 sample, they were
never available for random selection in the ALLRTE project. Given that the
percentage of positive results for RTE001 was less than 0.5 percent for either
Salmonella or L. monocytogenes, the ALLRTE results for CY2006 were most likely
higher than they would have been had all establishments had the chance of being
sampled each month.
The third change for CY 2006 was the introduction of RLm, the risk-based intensified
sampling project where products, product contact surfaces and environmental
surfaces are sampled in conjunction with a comprehensive FSA. Establishments are