—5—
relevant facts, 2) submit a report and recommendations regarding registra-
tion for certain uses of 2,4,5-T, and 3) state the reasons or bases for
these recommendations. It was the concensus of the Committee that the
central issue was whether use of the herbicide does in fact constitute an
imminent health hazard, especially with respect to human reproduction.
Accordingly, the Committee has undertaken to examine all available infor-
mation and to evaluate its relevance to the potential hazard of human
exposure during pregnancy.
During the intervening months since restrictions were placed on the
use of 2,4,5-T a number of additional studies have been carried out on
several animal species and a few reports on human exposure during pregnancy
have been further evaluated. Although the new data have not answered all of
the questions that have been or could be raised, they have undoubtedly pro-
vided a more substantial basis for making a scientific judgment about poss-
ible effects of this herbicide on prenatal development than previously
existed. In undertaking such judgment the Committee has taken into account
certain considerations that seem appropriate to the issue, as follows: 1)
As is frequently the case, available data are insufficient for a definitive
statement of conditions under which a specified risk might occur, assuming
that freedom from risk is ever attainable. 2) Since most chemicals under
suitable laboratory conditions could probably be demonstrated to have
teratogenic effects, and certainly all could be shown to produce some toxic
effects if dosage were raised high enough, it would not be reasonable to
consider the demonstration of toxic effects under conditions of greatly
elevated dosage sufficient grounds for prohibiting further use of a partic-
ular chemical. 3) Benefits are to be expected from the continued use of