-39-
''appearing abruptly at doses already causing considerable teratogenicity
and growth retardation. Teratogenicity is probably the most predictable
of the three in' that it usually has an easily demonstrable no-effect
range of dosage and a steep dose-response curve once teratogenicity
begins.
These variations in embryotoxic manifestations are particularly
troublesome when it is necessary to establish the highest no-detectable-
effect or the lowest effect level of dosage. A level that has no detec-
table teratogenic effect may already be in the effect range for lethality
or growth retardation. The solution to this dilemma requires either that
one form of embryotoxicity be selected as the criterion of interest or
that the one showing the lowest effect level arbitrarily be accepted in
setting tolerance limits. Such complications have been encountered in
attempting to evaluate 2,4,5-T results, particularly in those experiments
in which data on all embryotoxic manifestations were not reported. In
some experiments only results pertaining to teratogenicity were given and
in these cases dose-response evaluation had to be limited accordingly.
For others, the Advisory Committee has tried to extrapolate the data in
such a way as to approximate a no-effect level, i.e.,, the largest dose
at which no increased lethality, teratogenicity, or growth retardation
occurred.
2. Data from laboratory animals. In 1964, the National Cancer
Institute contracted with Bionetics Research Laboratories to perform
screening studies for carcinogenicity and teratogenicity on a number of
pesticides and industrial chemicals. The results, released in October
1969, indicated that of the 53 compounds examined, 2,4,5-T in particular
showed embryotoxicity in two stocks of mice at a dose of 113 mg/kg/day