-29-
of LDcQ and-19/20 confidence limits, of 2,4,5-T was for male rats 500
(391-640) mg/kg; for male mice, 389 (245-619); guinea pigs, male and
female, 381 (307-472); chicks, male and female, 310, (211-456). The
latter authors also used various commercial formulations of the butyl,
isopropyl and amyl esters of 2,4,5-T in single oral-dose animal-feeding
experiments in rats, chickens and guinea pigs and reported LDc levels
0
with 19/20 confidence limits which were all greater than those listed
above. They concluded that oral administration of 2,4,5-T could be
tolerated without adverse effects in doses only slightly smaller than
those which caused toxic effects and stated that this fact demonstrates
o/
that 2,4,5-T has a low degree of chronicity. Palmer and Radeleff—'
found that the propyl glycol butyl ether ester of 2,4,5-T was lethal to
one sheep after 369 daily oral doses of 100 mg/kg and to another sheep
after seven doses of 250 mg/kg. A single cow also succumbed to the
latter dose. The triethylamine salt of 2,4,5-T caused no observed
effect (sheep) after 481 doses of 100 mg/kg/day. The propionic acid butyl
ether ester of 2,4,5-T was lethal to a sheep after 11 daily doses of
100 mg/kg orally and lethal to a cow after 29 such doses. Five daily
250 mg/kg oral doses also killed a cow. Fifty mg/kg/day orally had no
effect after 73 days.
In 1969 an investigation of the carcinogenicity in mice of 120
pesticides and herbicides— ; 2,4,5-T was among the compounds tested
which did not cause significant increase in tumors after oral adminis-
tration. The purity or dioxin content of the sample was not described.
This represents the only report of long-term treatment with 2,4,5-T
other than the few farm animals mentioned above. The dose was the maximum