efficiency was lower during the crop-winter segment than during the fallow-
winter segment because infiltration was reduced by the antecedent water in
the soil profile and destruction of favorable surface soil structure by
fallow cultivation and seeding. The flailed and standing stubble treatments
with some residual residue on the surface stored slightly more water during
the crop-winter than the bare burned treatment. The inefficiency of water
storage during the hot, dry fallow-summer and the crop-winter segments is
apparent. Storage efficiency for the total 19-month fallow period ranged
from 38 to 42%.
Time of tillage is important for water conservation. Tilling too early when
soils are wet, destroys soil structure and causes soil compaction. Delayed
tillage permits water loss by evaporation and transpiration by weeds.
Massee and McKay (1979) report that in southeastern Idaho, where summer and
fall rainfall is limited, seedbed moisture at fall planting time in fallow
closely parallels the amount present when initial spring tillage is done.
They recommend shallow tillage to a depth of 3 to 3.5 inches when water
content in the 3 to 6-inch depth is 15 to 18% (w/w). Delayed tillage lost
water by evaporation and transpiration with resultant dry seedbeds in the
fall.
In a tillage by herbicide experiment conducted during three separate wheat-
fallow seasons (1980 through 1984) in northern Idaho, seed zone moisture was
not affected by tillage time (Lish and Thill, 1984; Lish et al., 1983).
Seed zone (0 to 6 inches) and soil profile (0 to 6 feet) water concentration
at the end of fallow (September) usually were equal regardless of initial
tillage time (March through June or no-tillage) and number of tillage
operations (0 through 5). July and August precipitation ranged from 0.9
inch in 1981 to 2.2 inches in 1982, which probably compensated for earlier
differences in seed zone moisture concentration among tillage treatments.
Time of herbicide application (fall or early spring) and herbicide
treatment, likewise, did not affect'seed zone or soil profile water
concentration during fallow. In the Eastern Idaho Plateau, Massee
(unpublished data), found that no-till (chemical) fallow stored 12.1 inches
water and conventional tilled fallow stored 11.8 inches water in the 8 foot
soil profile during fallow. Seed zone moisture in the nine-inch seed zone
was 8.9% for the no-till fallow and 9.6% for the conventional tilled fallow.
Lindstrom et al. (1974) have reported that May to September water loss from
fallow was not influenced by type of spring tillage (sweep or disking) in
eastern Washington. Tillage was performed in early April before appreciable
weed growth. One week later large clods were broken, the tilled layer
firmed, and a fine soil mulch produced by skew treading. Conventional rod
weeding was done as necessary to control weeds and maintain a fine soil
mulch. Summer evaporation loss is small (0.33 mm/day) during the summer
after a 4 to 6 inch fine dust mulch develops. Seed zone water at the end of
fallow was higher where spring tillage was used than where no-tillage
chemical fallow was used. Stand establishment was 80% or greater in tilled
fallow but only 50% on no-tilled chemical fallow. Wilkins et al. (1984)
report standing residues may also reduce tillering of wheat plants and
resultant production. Papendick et al. (1973) reported that in eastern
Washington more favorable seed zone moisture was maintained in fallow with a
deep soil mulch treatment produced by rodweeding at a depth of 4 to 6 inches
than with a shallow soil mulch weeded at 2 to 3 inches. Wheat emergence 8
132