obligations are approximately $17.3 million; and the contractual obligations
for the Agent Orange Exposure study are about $26.0 million. These funds for
the Agent Orange Exposure study have not yet been spent since this component
has not yet started. In addition to these costs/obligations, it will be
necessary to pay the contractors about $2.0 million for costs associated with
keeping the Agent Orange Exposure study on hold through September. It will be
necessary to negotiate final settlement costs with the contractors if this
study cannot be conducted. All the funds have been provided by the Veterans
Administration.
In concluding the summary of CDC's studies, the Vietnam Experience and the
Selected Cancer studies are proceeding well and on schedule. The Agent Orange
Exposure study's difficulties are due to inability to document exposure from
existing military records. Verification of the exposure assessment by blood
analysis may make it possible to do a scientifically valid study.
In addition to the ongoing work by the Centers for Disease Control, I should
mention that this Administration has committed resources for over ten Federal
agencies in addressing health issues of concern to Vietnam veterans. For
example, the Veterans Administration has two studies about to be released
(their mortality study and their soft tissue sarcoma study) and the U.S. Air
Force has just completed another round of physical examinations as part of
their continuing Ranch Hand Study. The combined efforts of these agencies
under the guidance of AOWG represent an extensive commitment to resolving the
health concerns of Vietnam veterans.
14