STATUS OF THE AGENT ORANGE EXPOSURE STUDY
The Agent Orange Exposure study was designed to evaluate possible health
effects of exposure to Agent Orange herbicides by comparing the health of an
exposed cohort of male U.S. Vietnam veterans with an unexposed cohort. The
two cohorts should differ in their exposure to herbicides in Vietnam while all
other health risk factors remain constant. Existing military records-
developed many years previously for military purposes - are all there is
available to separate individuals into a cohort who were most likely heavily
exposed to these agents and into a cohort who were most likely to have been
unexposed. In the original approved study protocol, numerous problems were
identified regarding the categorization of veterans with respect to herbicide
exposure. The protocol indicated that since the proposed categorization
procedures were untested, verification through pilot testing would be needed
before a final decision to proceed with the full scale study could be made.
The U.S. Army and Joint Services Environmental Support Group (ESG) has worked
diligently and effectively in abstracting location data to identify
potentially exposed and unexposed individuals for inclusion in the study.
Using this information, CDC prepared and submitted to the Office of Technology
Assessment (OTA), two reports on exposure assessment and for the Agent Orange
Exposure study, one in February 1985 and another in November 198F3. These
reports indicated that it was possible to identify relatively few veterans
with probable heavy exposure using information available to ESG. Initially,
however, before the military records were evaluated, it had been anticipated