18 JOURNAL OF THE A.S.S.S.T.
bride used, regardless of cover. These moisture level and
hybrid differences shown should be considered preliminary
information because of the lack of replications of the
covered plot and the variable results within treatments.
The main deterioration in quality of roots was in the suc-
rose concentration and sugar composition of the hard roots
(Table 2). The sucrose, as determined by the cold diges-
tion and gas chromatography methods, was greatly reduced
along with the thin juice purity when compared with those
harvested in the fall. Invert sugar increased with essen-
tially no change in the level of raffinose. Chemical
changes resulting from moisture level and hybrid differ-
ences could not be determined because of the extent of the
change for all beet roots and variable nature of the re-
sults. The low sucrose concentration and thin juice
purity, along with increases in other impurities, would
make these beet roots of no value for use in existing
sugar processing plants (3).
The winter of 1983-84 was much more severe with many
sub-zero (F) temperatures throughout the winter period and
above average levels of snow (Figure 1). The insulating
effect of the snow probably reduced the damage to the
roots when present but compacted the top and straw insula-
ting cover causing increased damage to the roots when the
snow melted.
During the 1983-84 season, the sugarbeet roots de-
teriorated physically to a greater extent than during the
previous season (Table 3). This increase in roots that
were soft was undoubtedly due to the severity of the
winter in comparison with the previous season. The sugar-
beets that received no treatment, had their leaves re-
moved, and received soil cover with and without leaves had
100 percent of their roots turn soft before spring har-
vest. The addition of insulating material such as top
vegetative cover and straw increased the number of beet
roots that were hard and could be mechanically harvested.
Soil cover of the crown with and without leaves increased
the percentage of hard beet roots when used with top or