22 JOURNAL OF THE A.S.S.B.T.
straw cover. Straw cover was superior to top vegetative
cover in maintaining the physical hardness of the roots.
Although about 75 percent of the beet roots were hard at
spring harvest when soil and straw were used as an insula-
ting material, this was not considered high enough survi-
val rate for use as a practical harvest method for sucrose
production.
The sucrose concentration and sugar composition of the
hard roots harvested in March of 1984 were far superior to
those of the previous season (Table 3). This increase in
chemical quality was probably caused by the low tempera-
tures throughout the season and the roots remaining frozen
until harvest when cover was provided. However, there was
still a substantial reduction in the sucrose concentration
and thin juice purity along with moderate increases in in-
vert sugars, with essentially no change in the level of
raffinose. The low sucrose concentration and thin juice
purity, along with increases in other impurities, would
make these beet roots of questionable value for use in
existing sugar processing plants.
Deficit water management during the growing season for
sugarbeets did not improve the storability (Table 2) or
the surface soil water during the winter months and at
spring harvest (Figure 5). The surface soil moisture was
increased about equally by the movement of soil water
towards the colder surface soil and rainfall staying near
the surface on frozen soil. There was no visible differ-
ence in the surface soil between moisture levels (M1 to
M4) at harvest. The roots were harvested in the spring by
hand at a time when the soil had a high moisture level
making it impossible, at this time, to harvest the roots
by mechanical means. This would be another distinct dis-
advantage during most seasons to spring harvest of sugar-
beet roots.
Seventy percent of the soil moisture deficit of over
11 cm of water, caused by no irrigation after 19 July, was
refilled as a result of the dry soil absorbing more of the
winter precipitation than the soils which were adequately