Naubert and Dillraan (14) performed an exhaustive study of the
ernbryotojdc effects of both 2,4,5-T and TCDD In mice. In this study
with NMRI mice only the appearance of cleft palate was considered as
evidence of teratogenicity. it was found that both 2,4,5-T and TCEO
produced cleft palate in mice, even with a single oral dose* The maximum
teratogenic effect was seen with 2,4,5-T if the single oral dose was
given on day 12 or 13 of gestation while with TCDD the maximal effect
was obtained on day 11 of gestation* A potantiation of the effects of
2,4,5-T and TCDD was obtained when teratogenic doses of one were com-
bined with threshold doses of the other. It was shown that TCDD was
capable of producing cleft palate in this strain of mice at doses
exceeding 2yg/kg which is well above that expected as a contamination
of 2,4,5-T preparations. It was also suggested that other impurities
than TCDD may be responsible for the teratogenic effects seen with
preparations of 2,4,5-T.
Using 2,4,5-T and 2,4-^lLchlorc^henoxyacertdc acid (2,4-D) separately
and combined (TCDD content was less than 1 ppm) in varying dose levels,
Bage, Cekanova and Larsson (1) found that high dosages were teratogenic
in NMDRI mice. The most ccramon finding was isolated cleft palate followed
by malformations of ribs and vertebra. Cystic kidneys, reported by
Courtney at al. (5) after 2,4,5-T treatment, were not observed. As
stated by the investigators, the dose resulting in teratogenic effects
was extremely high as compared with the dose a pregnant wotan could
normally be exposed to. They also noted that the results of their study
and other studies did not substantiate any special risk to the human
erabryo from the regular use of phonoxy herbicides.